---
layout: page
title: Project 3 - Final Web Design Project (using Wordpress)
date: Monday, May 4, 2015
---

## Due May 4, 2015

This project is worth 20% of your final grade.  You have already completed one portion of this project, worth 30 points.  This will be worth 60 points.

For this project, you will be building a professional portfolio website for yourself.  Your portfolio website should present some of the work you did this semester (so, you will need to upload those projects to your web server, or create screenshots of those projects).  It should be something that you would feel comfortable submitting to a future employer as a way to demonstrate some of your web design skills.

If you wish to do a website on another topic, please review this with the professor before April 8th (to ensure you have enough time to work on it!)

## Delivery

You will have a number of deliverables for this project

1. A completed website, uploaded to a web server, accessible via a URL
2. A username and password for the professor to access your site as an administrator (this can be removed after your grade is assigned).
3. A link to a github repository with your child theme posted

## Website Requirements

Your site must include the following

### Content (25 points)

- (4 points)  A minimum of 4 "pages".
  - One must be your home page
  - One must be a page to list your posts
  - If you would like, you may use a 'Category' as a menu item ([Category Page](https://en.support.wordpress.com/category-pages/)).  Although you would not be creating a specific page for this, you may count this as a 'Page' for these purposes.  We will go over this in class.
- (3 points)  A minimum of 3 "posts".  Each post should, at minimum:
  - have a featured image ([about featured images](https://en.support.wordpress.com/featured-images/))
  - have a category ([about categories](https://en.support.wordpress.com/posts/categories/))
- (2 points) In the Admin area, the time zone must be East Coast (or you must give the professor a good reason for choosing something else), your email address must be used, the Tagline must be changed.
- (3 points) The home page must be distinct from the other pages of the site, in other words, it should look different than the other pages, although still have the same menu bar. It doesn't have to be a custom page, although you may have one with your theme. You can also customize (editing related PHP files in the child theme) the existing home page of the theme if you'd like. The idea here is that either the page structure or the content on the page should make it appear different than the other pages on the site. 
- (5 points) A menu (navigation bar) with links to all main pages.  This menu should be created through the menus area and assigned to a navigation area in your theme.  It should not just be an automatically generated list of all your pages.
  - [More about Wordpress Menus](https://en.support.wordpress.com/menus/)
- (3 points) A contact form, either on a page or as a widget.
  - [Jetpack's Contact Form](http://jetpack.me/support/contact-form/)
- (2 points) One embedded video (you should not use a plugin to accomplish this!)
  - [Embeds](https://codex.wordpress.org/Embeds) from the Wordpress Codex
- (3 points) Images on each page (these images can be in posts or just on a page).

### Theming & Features (20 points)

- (2 points) Use of the Jetpack plugin
- (5 points) Use of a responsive wordpress theme.  Choose a **free** theme from the Wordpress theme gallery.  If you choose to use one of the Twenty-something themes (such as Twenty-Fifteen), you should do customization to it to make it your own.  I recommend searching the [Wordpress.com Theme Directory](https://theme.wordpress.com/), since I find that it is visually easier to find themes.  Most of these themes are also available in the [Wordpress.org Theme Repository](https://wordpress.org/themes/), which is the default repository used when you search from your admin dashboard.
- (5 points) Use of a **child theme**.  Your child theme must include at least some css customizations (perhaps allowing you to change something that you are not able to change using the standard Wordpress theme customizer).  We will review this in class.  You will submit this as a github repository.
  - [Our Class Notes about Child Themes](http://spring2015.professorpipe.com/wordpress-part3/)
- (3 points) A minimum of three widgets in either the sidebar or footer areas.  **Do NOT just use the default widgets**
  - One must be a text widget
  - One must be a Jetpack widget or a widget from a plugin that you have installed
- (1 points) One social media feed (Twitter, Facebook, or Pinterest for example) (you can fulfill this requirement AND your 'Jetpack Widget' requirement together if you wish)
- (2 points) Use a minimum of two different page templates for your pages (we will discuss this in class - if the theme you choose does not have custom page templates, you will need to create them)
  - [Changing page attributes](https://en.support.wordpress.com/pages/page-attributes/)
  - [Wordpress Codex on Custom Page Templates](https://codex.wordpress.org/Page_Templates)
- (2 points) Implementation of the Yoast SEO plugin (don't just activate it.  Actually use it).
  - [Definitive Guide to Wordpress SEO](https://yoast.com/articles/wordpress-seo/)
- (2 points) Implementation and setup of a Google Analytics plugin (we will discuss this in class)
  - [Google Analytics](http://www.google.com/analytics/) (you will need to create an account and a profile)
  - [Beginners GUide to Installing GA in Wordpress](http://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/how-to-install-google-analytics-in-wordpress/)

### Other

(5 points) Site is uploaded to a web server and is accessible via a web address.
(10 points) Site represents what the student has learned about web design and communication via the web, and demonstrates an understanding of best practices with regards to content and design.

##Delivery 

Everything will be due on May 4, 2015 (our last day of class).  We will have time in class to work on this project.  If you would like me to review any portion of your project before the due date (outside of asking questions personally), it will need to be submitted to me by April 28.  You will be required to have a portion of your project done by April 28, as we will be migrating it to your servers in class on that date.

##Grading

This portion of the project is worth 60 points.  I have marked the amount of points allotted to each item in the requirements above.
