---
layout: page
title: Project 1 - HTML & CSS
date: Monday, March 2, 2015
---

## Due March 2, 2015

This project is worth 20% of your final grade.  You will be graded on your technical coding skills, plus on your design sense.  Use what you have learned thus far in the class to create a compelling, attractive, easy to read web page.

## What You'll Learn

This project will allow you to showcase your advanced HTML and CSS skills.

## What You'll Create

You'll be creating a web page that showcases 9-16 visual pieces of content, plus information about that content.

For example, you may choose to do a page about your 16 favorite hockey players of all time, or a storytelling piece that showcases 16 photos of your daily life.  Cats, TV shows, cool websites, personal projects - pick something that you find interesting.  You will not be graded on your choice of topic.

###Examples

- [Ethan Marcotte's 'Victors & Villains'](http://alistapart.com/d/responsive-web-design/ex/ex-site-flexible.html)
- [A basic, bare-bones example I've created](../media/project1/index.html)

##Step-by-Step

1. Create a new folder in your document root called 'project1'
2. Inside that folder, create your web page.  Organize your files in a logical manner.
3. You may utilize a framework (such as Skeleton) or a web starter (such as HTML5 Boilerplate) or you can roll your own responsive template.

###Your page should feature

- Appropriate, semantic markup
- Linked CSS files (no `<style>` tags in your head!)
- A responsive, flexible grid-based design
- Images that scale with your responsive design
- Thoughtful use of color, whitespace, and typography (utilize external fonts from Google Web Fonts or other web font resources as needed)
- A CSS Reset (we've used *normalize* already in class)

You should include some CSS transforms and transitions on your page.

- Make sure to correctly utilize vendor prefixes.  You can use a tool such as [pleeease](http://pleeease.io/play/) or [CSS3 Generator](http://css3generator.com/) to help you set up your transforms and transitions.


###Your HTML and CSS must validate.
  - [HTML Validation](http://validator.w3.org/)
  - [CSS Validation](http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)
  
To validate your document, copy and paste your HTML code into the HTML validator.  Do the same for your CSS code.

Validation helps you see errors in your code. Error messages should tell you the line of the error and will give you information about what the error is.  Start with the first error.  Once you have fixed an error, recopy and paste your code into the validator and re-validate.  Sometimes fixing one error will clear others. 

If you are stuck on an error and cannot figure it out, **leave a comment in your code that explains this**.

Unvalidated code without explanation will result in an automatic deduction of 10 points from your grade.

##Delivery 

When you have completed this project, push it up to Github as a new repository.  Send me a link to your repository.  We have not gone over Github in class, so if you need help or a refresher with this, please let me know **before the due date**.

If you do not submit code by the start of class Monday March 2 (and have not reached out to me regarding issues), you will receive an automatic deduction of 10 points from your grade.